So, the big one is finding
research participants.
We've already talked about that
as being a big problem, and
I just wanna give you a very quick piece
of advice, some quick advice around that.
First of all,
when testing usability, right,
there is little point with testing
more than six people, okay?
Because the number of problems found
decreases dramatically beyond six people.
You can see how it tails off based on
research by the Nielsen Norman Group.
So even if you just
test with three people,
you'll still catch 75% of the problems
in the application, right?
So you don't need big numbers.
And also, the other thing I would say is
you can test with anybody who has got
comparable ability.
So when you're testing with usability,
you can use pretty much anybody.
You can use anybody who doesn't work for
the company,
that isn't aware of the product,
friends and family are great.
The only exception is if you're
aiming at people with specific needs,
often like the very young or
the very old, right?
So old people start getting arthritis
to get multi-control problems,
vision problems, those kinds of
things will affect usability.
But for
anybody in between those two extremes,
you could use pretty much anybody,
that's okay with usability testing.
Is it ideal?
Is it best practice?
No, is it pragmatic?
Is it easier?
Yes, so my advice is, when it comes
to usability, you can use anybody.
One objection you'll get is, well,
those people aren't gonna understand
the content on the website.
And really, the big argument that I
make here is that any content we publish
online should be accessible to
the widest possible audience, right?
Because you need to keep it easy
to understand for lots of reasons.
But you say, hang on a minute,
this website is for
pediatric nurses or, so yeah,
it's got highly specialized.
Well, yeah, obviously it's going to have
some level of complexity and that's fine.
But there are, it's good arguments to
be made to make this as accessible to
the widest possible range as possible.
For example,
what if people are new to the sector?
What if you're a newly graduated nurse,
for example?
Or what if English isn't
your first language?
Or maybe you have some kind of
cognitive disability, like dyslexia?
So really, making the content
accessible to everybody, and
at the lowest level you possibly
can is better for everybody,
because everybody can process
the information faster.
So this argument that you will get of,
you have to test with our exact
audience is a little bit skewed, right?
It is a valid point, but
you can make an argument that actually,
there is value of testing even if
you don't have the exact audience.
The only exception with
this is aesthetics, right?
Testing how people feel
about a design is harder and
you will need to represent
your audience more closely.
Because my taste, right, as a gen x,
middle aged white, heterosexual man
from the UK is gonna be totally different
from somebody else's aesthetic tastes,
from a different culture,
a different background, etc.
So in those kinds of situations,
you do need to consider a whole range
of things like culture, social groups,
psychology, personal experience,
trends, social economic factors, etc.
But that's only when you're testing for
the aesthetics, right?
The visuals of a design, and
maybe tone of voice as well with copy.
And in that situation,
there are recruitment services
that do an amazing job.
So there are many testing
tools that people can use.
Which, will do the recruitment for you for
as little as a dollar per person, right?
Which really is pretty good.
Or there's actually
a service called Askable,
which will recruit people for
you for about the same price,
bit more expensive, but they can use
whatever platform you want, right?
So if your platform of choice for
doing your user testing doesn't support
recruiting people for you,
you can just use Askable instead.
One of the questions you often get asked
is, what can't we use internal people?
Internal testing, they call it, right?
Internal testing does not work, people
have got to good and understanding of
the organization, they've got have
a good understanding of the project.
But you can use friends and family, right?
Because they're outside
of the organization, and
that's normally preferable to using
employees, or user JSON people, right?
If you use employees favor those that
work regularly with users, so cuz you
can say to them, well, okay, so you're
an employee, but you know your audience,
you you're working with them all the time,
pretend you're one of them.
And you can,
I guess beware bias if all else fails and
you have to use employees, just be
aware of those, the internal testers
are gonna have a deeper understanding
of the users and objectives.
And the very final thing I wanna
say in this kind of introductory
segment is I recommend you be
smart about your tools, right?
If you work for a larger organization,
you will feel a tendency to get
a grown-up user testing platform, right?
And there are the big enterprise
platforms like usertesting.com,
Optimizely, things like that.
But if you've already got those,
great, they're good platforms.
I'm not criticizing them, but if you are
trying to get into usability testing in
your organization, you will immediately
hit a barrier, because these will go over
a procurement threshold, you'll have
to jump through a lot of hoops.
They're expensive, they're time consuming,
you'll have to go out to tender.
It'll be a nightmare, right?
If you work for a small organization,
these are too expensive,
you don't wanna be paying for
them anyway, right?
So instead I would encourage you
to use the tools you already have.
Chances are,
if you're a reasonably big organization,
you're probably already running
something like Hotjar for example,
which has got heat maps, it's got session
recording, it's got surveys built into it.
So there's a lot you can do with
the tools you already have,
you probably already got Google Analytics,
right?
There's a lot that you can learn from
looking at Google Analytics, and
we'll come onto those
kinds of things later.
But then there are also loads of
really great free tools out there,
one that you've probably not
heard of is Microsoft Clarity.
And it's basic very similar to Hotjar,
and I'll introduce you more to it later.
Amazing free tool, completely free for
you to use, right?
And you can store that on your site and
you can get loads of great insights
just like that, for no money whatsoever.
And then there's also a lot
of applications out there,
they've got free plans that are great for
getting started and
trying it out and convincing people of it.
So there's Lyssna,
which is great for quick tests,
such as first-click test and
5-second test, they've got a free account.
Maze, which is a great all round
platform for a variety of user testing.
Free account, UX Metrics,
perfect for card sorting,
free testing that information
architecture based stuff.
Free account, Lookback,
which is my preference for
facilitated usability testing.
It's not free, but it's not expensive,
especially if you just want it for
one month, but
you do some usability testing.
So there are loads of great tools
out there that can make an enormous
difference.
And then the one I mentioned earlier,
Pollfish, which is great for surveys.
And unless they do the recruitment for
you, don't cost you a penny, right?
So to kind of wrap up this section,
I wanted to really kind of summarize what
I've been driving at here, which is the
getting started in usable user research
doesn't have to be really time-consuming
or really expensive, right?
That you don't need to wait for
permission, you shouldn't go looking for
sign off on this stuff,
just start doing it.
You get to make all kinds of decisions
about how you do your job, right?
Nobody tells you, well, maybe people
do tell you how to code or design, but
you've got a degree of freedom.
Well, just make a bit of usability
testing and research a part of that.
And you can achieve a huge amount without
asking for extra budget or extra time.
And that's what we're gonna
get into as we go forward.
And I wanna start with, well,
let's look at upfront research and
testing, and what we really need to
do before we begin a project and
what we can just dump or
do in a different way later.
Before we move on to the next section, any
questions so far about what we've covered?
Cuz I've kind of shared a lot
of theoretical stuff and
a lot of, it might have left
you with a lot of year buts.
Yeah, that sounds great, Paul, but, any
concerns, any questions, anything so far?
>> One of the things that I really liked
about Working at General Mills was they
had these one-way mirrors to look at
how people would get attracted to food
products.
Cuz we were measuring is the Cheerios too
high up and no one's looking at that, so
that's why they don't buy it.
>> Yeah.
>> Because placement of
the products on those shelves.
>> Yeah.
>> For kids, we put the sweet stuff
down [LAUGH] on the bottom, right?
And they're like, yeah, I want that.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> [LAUGH] All the cinnamon rolls were
sold really fast that way [LAUGH].
>> That kind of stuff is amazing, that's
very much traditional usability testing
is what they've done for years,
with us one way mirror, and
you can see what's going on, and you can
ask questions, and those kinds of things.
That's fallen out of favor a little
bit in UX design because it's
quite time-consuming and quite expensive,
you have to have a special setup and
all the rest of it.
But you can actually replicate quite a lot
of that very cheaply and very quickly, so
there's kind of two aspects.
There's the aspects of
talking to people and
finding out what their preferences were.
And then the other aspect of it is that
watching people do stuff in a natural way,
right?
So the watching people do stuff
in a natural way, actually,
there are a lot tools that can do that.
So Hotjar is is one example,
where it record sessions and
you can watch those sessions
back which is amazing.
Then I mentioned Microsoft
clarity a minute ago and
that does exactly the same for
free, right?
And also you can do things like filter
them, so you could say, I only wanna see I
want to watch people that have got
really frustrated and have rage clicked.
Or I wanna watch people that have tried to
click on something that's not clickable,
that's another big one,
which is really good.
So that's the kind of
observation side of things.
Now, in terms of the kind of
questioning side of things,
you can absolutely still do what's
called facilitated T-testing.
You typically would do that with fewer
people because it takes longer and
is more more time-consuming and expensive.
But another option if you wanna do more
people, you could do something like
surveying, which obviously in that
case isn't a conversation as such, but
you can get bigger numbers out there.
So it's all about getting
the biggest bang for your buck, and
it's what you wanna
learn in that situation.
Are you trying to learn whether
somebody spots something or
whether they are getting
frustrated by something?
Or are you looking to know
their opinion about something?
Cuz that will affect
whichever way you go there,
whether you watch session recordings,
or whether you do interviews.
So it's about getting the balance and
picking the right tool for the right job,
which hopefully will come
out more as we go through it